At the end of last video, I mentioned that getting TypeScript and Mongoose to work together is sometimes
just a little bit awkward.
So in this video, I want to outline two big issues that we're going to run into.
Just so you are aware of why we were going to write out some slightly complicated code in just a moment.
So here's the big issue that we're going to start to run into.
First, I want to give you a quick review on some terminology around Mongoose and MongoDB inside of
MongoDB.
We organize information into different collections.
We might have a user collection that will store all the different users who have signed up for our application.
So in this case, users one through four.
Each of these can be thought of as little objects that stores some information about a very particular
user.
To access all this data, we're going to use Mongoose, and in particular, we are going to create two
different things inside of Mongoose.
We are first going to create something called a mongoose user model.
This is a class that is going to represent the entire collection of users.
So we will use this user model class to run queries, to create new users, or to do anything that modifies
or queries the overall collection.
We are also going to have something called a mongoose user document.
A user document is also a class.
It is meant to represent one singular user.
So we might create an instance of a user document to represent user number two or create a second instance
or another instance to represent just user number four.
So again, we've got a user model that represents all of our data and a user document that represents
just one little thing.
So at that quick refresher on terminology, here are the two issues that we're going to start to run
into when we are getting Mongoose and TypeScript to interact with each other.
So issue number one.
Is going to come up when we start to create a new user document.
So this is going to be how we eventually try to create a new user document or a new instance of a user.
We'll say new user and then pass in some different properties such as email and password.
Now whenever we try to pass in properties to anything, TypeScript wants to understand the properties
we are passing in and somehow make sure that you're passing in the correct type of data.
So TypeScript wants to understand the different arguments that calling new user is going to accept.
However, Mongoose does not make this easy behind the scenes, or more specifically with the Mongoose
type definition file that we just installed a little bit ago.
Whenever we try to create an instance of a user as you're doing right here, it is not going to kind
of tell TypeScript about the different properties that we are trying to pass in.
And so, for example, we could make a huge typo inside of here.
We could accidentally write in hard instead of password.
And TypeScript is not going to complain because TypeScript is not going to be given enough information
by Mongoose by default to understand the different types of arguments or the names of these properties
that we are supposed to pass in.
So this is issue number one that we are going to run into.
We have a workaround for this.
We're going to essentially somehow teach TypeScript about the different properties that this constructor
expects.
So we are going to solve this.
I just want you to be aware that this is something we need to be aware of.
Okay.
Issue number two.
So with issue number two, at some point in time, we are going to create a new user and we might assign
it some properties like, say, email and password.
That's then going to give us back a user document.
So that's, let's imagine right here, a user variable or something like that.
At some point in time later, we are going to want to access some of the data within this user.
Let's imagine for a second that we add in a console log of user.
If we did that, we might end up seeing that this user document has more properties than what we provided
to a constructor.
So for example, we might take that email and password and assign them as properties to user.
But behind the scenes, Mongoose might decide to add in a couple of additional properties as well.
Properties like let's say a created at timestamp or an updated at timestamp.
So the properties that we pass into the constructor don't necessarily match up with all the properties
that are created on the user document.
This is also an issue with TypeScript because TypeScript wants to know about all the properties that
exist on the user.
So we need to somehow tell TypeScript, Hey, look, we're going to pass some properties into the constructor.
TypeScript But don't worry, there are going to be some other properties that get created behind the
scenes and assigned to the user as well.
So we really need to teach TypeScript that there are kind of two different sets of properties.
There's one set of properties that will be passed to the constructor and there's going to be a second
set of properties that we should be able to access on the user document that gets created.
That is issues number one.
And number two.
And again, this is some stuff that we're going to have to fight with around Mongoose and TypeScript.
Now, of course, if we were just writing JavaScript, yeah, we would not really have to worry about
this.
But there are some very good reasons.
So you're using TypeScript on this microservices project?
We haven't really dove into them just yet, but trust me, you're going to start to see why we are using
TypeScript very quickly as soon as we start to create our second service.
All right.
So now we understand these two big challenges.
Another quick pause.
We're going to start to write out some code that's going to solve both these challenges.
We're going to create our user model and all that good stuff.
So I'll see you in just a minute.